\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename guild-hall.info
@settitle Guild-Hall Manual
@include version.texi
@set PACKAGE guild-hall

@copying
This manual is for Guild-Hall version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright @copyright{} 2010 Andreas Rottmann.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 or any
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Guild-Hall Manual
@author Andreas Rottmann

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Dorodango

This manual is for Guild-Hall version @value{VERSION}.
@end ifnottex

Guild-hall is a package manager written for Guile Scheme.

A guild hall is where guild members meet.  This package builds a guild
hall for Guile, providing a virtual space for Guile masters and
journeyfolk to share code.

Using the guild hall, you can easily install and distribute
collections of Scheme modules and programs.  The guild can handle
dependencies, so when a program requires several libraries, and each
of those has further dependencies, all of the prerequisites for the
program can be installed in one go.

Guild-hall is a port of Andreas Rottmann's Dorodango portable package
manager for R6RS Scheme, adapted to better fit in with Guile Scheme
environments.  It is compatible with the R6RS Scheme package archives
that Dorodango uses.

@menu
* Getting Started:: Installation and a quick introduction
* Overview:: A tour of the guild hall
* Reference:: The command-line interface
* Packaging Guide:: How to create packages
* Index:: Concept index
@end menu

@node Getting Started
@chapter Getting Started

@menu
* Installation:: Installing dorodango
* Quickstart:: A quick introduction
@end menu

@include installation.texi
@include quickstart.texi

@include overview.texi
@include reference.texi
@include packaging.texi

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
