\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename guildhall.info
@settitle Guildhall Manual
@include version.texi
@set PACKAGE guildhall

@copying
This manual is for Guildhall version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright @copyright{} 2010 Andreas Rottmann.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 or any
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry
* Guildhall: (guildhall).      Package manager for Guile 2
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title Guildhall Manual
@author Andreas Rottmann
@author Andy Wingo

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Guildhall

This manual is for Guildhall version @value{VERSION}.
@end ifnottex

Guildhall is a package manager written for Guile Scheme.

A guild is an association of independent craftspeople.  A guildhall is
where they meet.  This Guildhall aims to make a virtual space for
Guile wizards and journeyfolk to share code.

On a practical level, Guildhall lets you share Scheme modules and
programs over the internet, and install code that has been shared by
others.  Guildhall can handle dependencies, so when a program requires
several libraries, and each of those has further dependencies, all of
the prerequisites for the program can be installed in one go.

Guildhall is a port of Andreas Rottmann's Dorodango portable package
manager for R6RS Scheme, adapted to better fit in with Guile Scheme
environments.  It is compatible with the R6RS Scheme package archives
that Dorodango uses.

@menu
* Getting Started:: Installation and a quick introduction
* Overview:: Your guild membership rights and privileges
* Reference:: The command-line interface
* Packaging Guide:: How to create packages
* Index:: Concept index
@end menu

@node Getting Started
@chapter Getting Started

@menu
* Installation:: Installing Guildhall
* Quickstart:: A quick introduction
@end menu

@include installation.texi
@include quickstart.texi

@include overview.texi
@include reference.texi
@include packaging.texi

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
