@node Installation
@chapter Installation

Dorodango comes in a tarball, which includes all its dependencies and
an installation script. The installation script will probe for a
supported Scheme implementation (currently Ikarus and Ypsilon), and
uses dorodango to install itself and all dependencies into a selectable
destination (@pxref{Destinations} for details).

It is recommended to install dorodango outside of the location(s)
managed by it. There are several ways to achieve this:

@enumerate
@item
Install dorodango in @file{/usr/local/}, and use dorodango's default
configuration, which will install packages into @file{~/.local/}.

@item
Install dorodango in some other place other than @file{~/.local/},
and symlink the @command{doro} script to some directory in your
@env{PATH}.

@item
Install dorodango into the default location, @file{~/.local/}, and
configure it to use some other location by default.
@end enumerate

For option 1, installation works like this:

@verbatim
tar -xjf dorodango-full-0.0.1.tar.bz2
cd dorodango-0.0.1/dorodango
./setup --prefix /usr/local
@end verbatim

The R6RS implementation is probed for automatically in the above
example, but you can explicitly choose using the @option{-i} or
@option{--implementation} option:

@verbatim
./setup --implementation ikarus --prefix /usr/local
@end verbatim

Note that @option{--implementation} must go before other arguments.

After running @command{setup} like above, you should now have
@file{/usr/local/bin/doro}, and as @file{/usr/local/bin} is ordinarily
in @env{PATH}, running @command{doro --help} should display a help
message.

Besides the @command{doro} script, the installation process also
creates a helper program @command{r6rs-script} in the same directory
(i.e. @file{/usr/local/bin} in the running example). This script is
specific to the implementation chosen when installing dorodango, and
is used for running Scheme programs installed by dorodango.

Option 2 works nearly the same, except that you use a different
argument after @option{--prefix}, and afterwards make @command{doro}
available in your PATH.

For option 3, you don't need to specify @option{--prefix}, but you
should configure a different default destination for dorodango to
use. @xref{Configuration File}, for more information on configuring
dorodango.
