\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename sigil.info
@settitle Sigil Manual
@include version.texi
@set PACKAGE sigil

@copying
This manual is for Sigil version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright @copyright{} 2010 Andreas Rottmann.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 or any
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Sigil Manual
@author Andreas Rottmann
@author Andy Wingo

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Sigil

This manual is for Sigil version @value{VERSION}.
@end ifnottex

Sigil is a package manager written for Guile Scheme.

A guild is an association of independent craftspeople.  This sigil
marks you as a member of the guild of Guile wizards and journeyfolk.

On a practical level, Sigil lets you share Scheme modules and programs
over the internet, and install code that has been shared by others.
Sigil can handle dependencies, so when a program requires several
libraries, and each of those has further dependencies, all of the
prerequisites for the program can be installed in one go.

Sigil is a port of Andreas Rottmann's Dorodango portable package
manager for R6RS Scheme, adapted to better fit in with Guile Scheme
environments.  It is compatible with the R6RS Scheme package archives
that Dorodango uses.

@menu
* Getting Started:: Installation and a quick introduction
* Overview:: Your guild membership rights and privileges
* Reference:: The command-line interface
* Packaging Guide:: How to create packages
* Index:: Concept index
@end menu

@node Getting Started
@chapter Getting Started

@menu
* Installation:: Installing Sigil
* Quickstart:: A quick introduction
@end menu

@include installation.texi
@include quickstart.texi

@include overview.texi
@include reference.texi
@include packaging.texi

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
